Intro to OSS  (LFD102)
  Use of OSS means source code is made available with a license which provides rights to examine, modify and redistribute, without restriction on the user's identity or purpose.
  
  There is a multiplicity of licensing methods, falling into the two general classifications:
    Permissive (such as BSD-licensed software)
    Restrictive (such as GPL-licensed software)
  
  
  Proprietary (Closed Source) Software
    
    Price is not the point! 
The difference with OSS and proprietary models has nothing to do with price.
 One can charge as much as one wants for an open product and one can provide a proprietary product for free. 
 The license differences have to do with redistribution, modification, reuse of code, etc.
 
 OSS Governance Models
 Company-Led (mostly, a closed process)
     Development is strongly led by one corporate or organizational interest
     One entity controls software design and releases
     May or may not solicit contributions, patches, suggestions, etc.
     Internal discussions and controversies may not be aired very much
     It is not definitively known what will be in the next software release
     Upon release, all software is completely in the open
     Examples: Google Android, Red Hat Enterprise Linux
  Benevolent Dictatorship (strong leadership)
     One individual has overriding influence in every decision
     Project's quality depends on that of the dictator
     Can avoid endless discussions and lead to quicker pace
     As project grows, success depends critically on the dictator's ability to:
     - Handle many contributors
     - Use a sane, scalable version control system
     - Appoint and work with subsystem maintainers
     The dictator's role may be social and political, not structural (forks can occur at any time)
     Maintainers write less and less code as projects mature
     Example: Linux kernel
  Governing Board (tighter control by smaller groups)
     A body (group) carries out discussions on open mailing lists
     Decisions about design and release dates are made collectively
     Decisions about who can contribute, and how patches and new software are accepted, are made by the governing body
     There is much variation in governing structures, rules of organization, degree of consensus required, etc.
     Tends to release less frequent, but hopefully well-debugged versions
     Examples: FreeBSD, Debian.

The open source program office serves as a center for functions, including:

Choosing OSS code to be used
    Facilitating adoption of the code and popularizing its availability and usage
    Keeping track of usage
    Auditing compliance considerations
    Making sure proper information and training is available to all employees, as needed.

Designing an Open Source Policy
   How much of the product is desired to be OSS? Are there current closed source components which could be replaced by open source ones,
   perhaps both improving the product and its forward maintenance?
   Which license(s) are a good fit to your needs and which licenses can you use in various OSS components you integrate, such as libraries, 
   APIs, etc.? Are you best off with permissive licenses (like BSD or Apache) or more restrictive ones (like GPL)? Can you mix them in one or more released products?
   Do you have a strong enough understanding (and legal help) to set up procedures for using both proprietary and open source code in a way which protects both types?
   How will you review the code to make sure things are being done properly, that inappropriately licensed material does not find its way into your code, 
   both the open and closed parts? Will you use automated license compliance tools, such as FOSSology, SPDX, or FOSS Bar Code Tracker
   
   https://www.fossology.org/get-started/faq/
   
   Know Where the Code is Coming From: DCO and CLA
      It is very important for any open source project to document and understand where all contributed code is coming from.
      This is important for multiple reasons, including:
      Knowing who the expert(s) are on the contributions; when there are questions or modifications, generally these people need to either answer them or do the work, or at least review it before acceptance.
      Knowing the legal provenance of the code; if someone either inadvertently or intentionally uses code that violates the license it may have used in another context this can be a big problem. In this case it is important to know who to blame.
      Two common methods for handling these issues are the use of either a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) or a Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO). There can be arguments about which is more appropriate for a given project. However, a number of well-established projects have migrated from CLA to DCO as their operative integrity documentation.
      With a CLA (the older method) contributors must sign an agreement which can vary from project to project. For example, they may or may not grant copyright and/or patent licenses.
      The DCO was introduced by the Linux Foundation in 2004 and is simpler and of lighter weight. Every git commit must be signed off with this approach.
      With either approach, the servers hosting the software repositories (such as GitHub or GitLab) can use checks to ensure all contributions either have a CLA in place or are signed off as required by a DCO.
      Generally speaking a CLA is a one-time operation, whereas a DCO requires a sign-off with each contribution, but this is trivial (i.e., adding the -s option to each commit operation).
      A detailed summary of the use of DCOs is given here. When you use the -s option, each commit will have a message embedded such as:
      Signed-off-by: Some Developer <some-developer@example.com>
      
      
      
      Jenkins is an open source CI/CD system.
      Jenkins X is an open source CI/CD solution for cloud applications on Kubernetes.
      Spinnaker is an open source multi-cloud continuous delivery platform.
      Tekton is an open source software specification for CI/CD components.
      
      Patents
      The Open Invention Network (OIN) was created as a global patent pool; companies and other entities which join the OIN enter in a mutual non-aggression agreement 
      within the OSS-based ecosystem. OIN members agree in return for not suing each other over patent issues, they gain access to each other’s patent portfolio free of charge.
      
      Introduction to OSS Licensing and Legal Issues
      There are two broad classes of licenses: 
         Restrictive, such as the GPL in all of its forms 
         Permissive, such as the BSD and Apache Foundation Licenses
      Restrictive Licenses
          Demand the software remains open and place strong limitations on any attempt to make proprietary closed products. 
          Changes to the code must be made available to future recipients. A prominent example is the GPL (General Public License), a copyleft license.
      Permissive Licenses
          Do not require modifications and enhancements to be generally available. Prominent examples include the BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution) and Apache licenses.
          
      (important) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses
      
      http://oss-watch.ac.uk/apps/licdiff/ - ask questions, get license which suites
      
      There are several resources you can use to help you choose the most appropriate license for your project:
         Open Source Initiative - Open Source Licenses by Category
         Sponsored by GitHub - Choose an Open Source License - this site walks you through the properties you must consider, helping you decide what license makes sense.
         (important)TLDRLegal - Browse Software Licenses and Summaries - this site tags software licenses with key properties to help you navigate easier and better understand the existing licenses.
         GNU - Various Licenses and Comments About Them - this site provides a description of copyleft licenses and comments about them.
         
         Gerrit - advanced GIT workflow
         
         
         https://forum.linuxfoundation.org/categories/lfd102-class-forum
         
         https://www.gitkraken.com/